Items of discussion per day:
1. MCS operation and misc. PFI telemetry or measurements
2. Cobra configuration operation, going through AIT process at Taiwan
3. Going through commissining process, brainstorming session

# Day 1 (MCS operation and misc. PFI telemetry or measurements)

## 1-1. MCS operation

### Responsibility of functionality provided by MCS (summary; see below for details)

* We agreed to keep functionalities of MCS within data with MCS pixel coordinate system.
  * No collision detection of Cobras in MCS
* Use arc of moving fiber just for tracking of its movement.
  * To check which fiber (spot) goes behind a dot, or to identify spot in overlapping region as which fiber.
* Add flags for status of Cobras during movement (e.g. stopped behind dot)
  * For continuous image readout during Cobra movement, we just track movement using arc, whether spot goes under dot or not.
  * Switching between two modes (continuous image readout and spot position measurement after each iteration) need to be discussed at FPS session.

### Arc by spot on Cobra moving
  Using 0.8sec integration of MCS, nominal movement of each Cobra stage is around 4.8degree
which makes arc as 20 pixel elongation or a bit more, whose spot detection or measurement
is not supported by existing MCS spot detection code. FPS/MPS will move both two stages of
Cobra motors in the same time, and arc by moving spot is not a simple arc but a track by
combination of two rotation movement, which makes poiting its representative point quite
difficult.
  We set a baseline to track movement of fiber tip, including behind a dot, using arcs on
acquired MCS images, by tracking nearest arcs on consecutive images. This operation will
acquire MCS image by ~0.8sec, and Cobra (or its fiber spot) will not move more than 2mm,
which is an outer diameter of circles in fiber arm, therefore two arcs will not cross within
one MCS image.

### Collision detection
  Since there is a possible collision mode between two sides of arms (fiber side and shaft
side), we need to calculate distances between shaft (center of 2nd stage) and fiber (the
same as spot taken by MCS) for nearby Cobras, but not only between fibers. This need to
coordinate conversion among (i, j)_MCS, (x, y)_F3C and (theta, phi)_Cobra, and detection
calculation need to be done in FPS but not in MCS.
  This means on the fly collision detection requires interaction between MCS and FPS. One
possible implementation is to report non elongated spots, whose elliplicity is small enough
but not only non-arc liked shape, per each MCS image. But there could be many false positive
mode especially on the initial moment of Cobra movement from origin (HOME), it's rather
harmful.

### Collision mode
  We devided collision mode into two: slight contact of two fiber arms whose movement will
resume quickly even if two Cobra stop for short time, and eternal collision whose movement
will not resume without issuing new command from MPS. Also we need to wait inputs from
evaluation using testbed at JPL whether these two cases covers fully or not.
  One possible mode pointed on the eternal collision case. There could be some possibility
on two collided Cobras, that commanded pulse cound for one Cobra is well shorter than other
and longer one continues its movement against stopped one; in other words, piezo motor
generates pressure to move against free motor. Question is what will happen on this case,
that if Cobra motor without active pulse applied can move easily, these collided Cobras
could move slightly.

### Data for regenaration of motor maps
  We need to reject collided cases during normal operations for regeneration procedure of
motor maps. It is easy for the eternal collision mode, but we need to care of the slight
contact cases.

### MCS image to be archived
  For official archive, our baseline to have single image of the final (stacked) MCS image
which we confirm positions of fibers to be assigned targets.

### misc.
* Spot measurement by MCS is already quick (<1 sec), but spot identification takes much time.
* Still evaluating strange behavior between shutter and MCS CMOS detector.



## 1-2. PFI

### AG camera stepped window position on detector pixel
  ASIAA will have an optical system with precise stage to put F beam on AG camera detector
for measurement on position of a boundary of stepped window on AG camera detector coordinate.
This stepped window is fixed on the detector (CCD) package directly, so measurement before
integration to the mechanical structure shall be fine and will not change after installation.

### PFI Humidity measurement
  PFI has one humidity sensor within cover for PFI bench, so we can measure humidity nearby
Cobra electronics and optics (including microlens on fibers and Cobra side surface of the
field element). Flow control or piping of dry air into PFI from Subaru facility through the
cable wrapper is still TBD, we might need to care of condensation on external surface of
electrical boxes for PFI especially nearby HEX using glycol, whose temperature is controlled
as a few degree below against the enviornment temperature in dome (TBC!).

# Day 2 (Cobra configuration operation, going through AIT process at Taiwan)

## 2-1. F3C/MCS coordination transfomration and spot-fiber identification

* Distortion/deformation parameters between F3C and MCS is checked and measured by FPS on MCS image at home position
* spot-fiber identification during Cobra configuration sequence is by MCS

### We will present a list of items output from spot measurment in upcoming Princeton meeting (e.g. total flux, peak intensity, backgound)

  F3C/MCS coordination transformation is done in FPS, using a set of distortion and
deformation parameters supplied through IIC (originated from ETS or PFS-wide shared
module for F3C coordination). Once 'go home' operation by MPS finished and telescope
(fast) slew finished if necessary, FPS will command MCS to take an image, measure all
spots on the image, and send sets of SpotID, spot position (i, j)_MCS, and statistics
from spot measurement (total flux, size, elliplicity etc.) to FPS.
  These spots include spots for FFFs (fixed fiducial fibers) with encoder FFFs at
outermost lines to identify its position, FPS measures image rotation and scale using
identified spots of FFFs, and FPS also verifies a set of distortion and deformation
parameters supplied through IIC with compairing converted spot positions and home
positions. There is a small possibility of collision during 'go home' operation, but
such collision could be detected during verification of parameters. Whether we can
do some tweak on these collision case by appling 'delay count', or how frequently
collision could happen, are not yet fully studied and need to be investigated using
testbed at JPL.

  On spot to fiber identification on each stage during Cobra configuration (note, 1st
stage is moving Cobra from home positions), 1) we need to refer information from
tracking arc during one stage in some case such as fiber at behind dot, collided
fibers, 2) we can convert target positions into MCS coordinate that we will not move
telescope nor MCS and a set of parameters for coordinate transfomration will be stable
during one Cobra configuration sequence, and MCS can use these positions as a reference
to search nearby spot even if we have uncertainties of these movements, 3) to track
complex feature in real time over all ~2400 spots could cost more than one exposure of
MCS and not realistic. From these conditions, we agreed it is better to handle spot
to fiber identification in MCS but not FPS using pre-calculated information from FPS.
For only spots which MCS could not find any fiber nearby measured spot position, MCS
will track arcs from position of last stage to identify fiber ID on these spot. Also
MCS will mark fiber IDs, whose spot in pair is missing, as behind dot.


## 2-2. Sequence FPS need to execute for Cobra configuration

* 'go home' in parallel to telescope slew, without MCS continuous readout
* once telescope slew finished, FPS command MCS to acquire image of 'home'
  * need to think about procedure when any spot is found as not at home
* once FPS confirms all spots are well in close to target, FPS command MCS to take a (stacked) long exposure for accurate spot measurement

  These sequence will be drawn as a sequence diagram and be presented in upcoming
Princeton meeting.

  We need to define what and how we will do after we found at each stage:
* any fiber stopped behind dot: this could not happen since target is well away from dot, but not confirmed as 100% sure
* any pair of fibers collided (even one is behind dot)
  Including them, we will make a list of questions and/or items to be studied using
testbed to present at upcoming Princeton meeting.


## 2-3. AIT and commissioning

  We briefly review through AIT at ASIAA and commissioning at Subaru as software
preparation point of view to make a list of required functionalities in actors
and/or engineering modules.


## 2-4. Telemetry and calibration

* Atsushi will check remote monitoring possibility for power control box and network switch in PFI
* Each actor will decide frequency to update its statuses

  We found that we forgot about microphone in PFI. This is connected to USB-Opt converter
so we need to implement some proxy on AGCC host computer, where two USC-Opt converters
are mounted. Atsushi will check network audio transmission software to transfer audio
data from AGCC host computer to somewhere for later usage such as connecting to speaker
or wavelet analysis. Once we can transfer audio data from AGCC host computer, we can
apply any post-processing with certain computing resource.


## 2-5. misc

* We confirmed fibers in cable wrapper as 3 pairs SM and 2 pairs of MM (62.5). 1 pair for both are spares.
* We need to make graphical presentations for possible collision case of fiber arms.
* Three presentations on FPS in upcoming Princeton meeting will be as:
  * Shiang-Yu + Atsushi : Collision detection algorithm and its limitations with list of questions to PO, Science, and JPL/CIT
  * Chi-Hung : FPS sequence with list of output into archive database
  * Jeniffer : Functional requirements on MCS and its algorythm implementationplan, with list of output

## 2-6. correction

* Long time spent in MCS image processing is to acquire calibration data, but not real processing

# Day 3 (Going through commissining process, brainstorming session)

## 3-1. Software for commissioning flow

  We may tend to test MCS with real Cobra rail module at ASIAA for having ideas of real
image of spot, so the delivery of MCS to Subaru will be after first delivery of Cobra module.
Although we already have some idea of data and behavior at Subaru dome from preliminary
tests using FMOS PIR with looking from Cs by some commercial camera, parameters which could
affect to performance such as WFC optics, fiber core diameter, camera pixel size, and MCS
telescope are quite different from real MCS. We agreed it is important to verify system
performance with real camera and (semi-)real configuration using telescope.
  We have confirmed with Richard that ASIAA has three identical CANON CMOS detectors (with
housing), which are one with large MCS telescope and two with small MCS telescope (in old
design), and also ASIAA has spare EDT card to read CMOS sensors. We plan to use different
camera for test bed (or one also used at Subaru when PFI is not on the POpt2), and we will
have one full set of camera with readout electronics without MCS telescope remainning at
ASIAA after the delivery of MCS to Subaru even if we want to use the real CMOS camera (without
large MCS telescope, which will not fit with PFI test stand at ASRD), and no need to bring
the camera back to ASIAA to be used for AIT work on test bed. Again, note that current plan
of fiber tip position measurement is using some commercial camera with easier configuration
and operation even if we can have smaller number of pixels.

  In system verification procedure for MCS, we agreed to command and operate MCS through
MHS but not direct (specal/specific) command line interface. This means we need to deliver
some infrastructure of on-site ICS system to Subaru at the point of delivery of MCS. It
is not fixed yet for telemetry sensors in MCS, but we will not have flow meter for Glycol
since we will not cool CMOS detector (or its camera) by glycol but just air cooling fan
on HEX in the box. There is great advantage of system verification using pinhole mask,
which can simulate entire optics and environment as real configuration, so we need to think
this option more seriously.
  On coordinate transformation verification, we need to use spot to fiber position
verification module in FPS, which is mainly used right after 'go home' operation to
check parameters by compairing converted spot positions from MCS to F3C and well defined
home positions in F3C. So, software point of view, we need to prepare this submodule
before this verification procedure. Also such coordinate transformation could be used
at many submodules in ICS, we might want (or be better) to have dedicated library
repository for entire coordinate transformations used in ICS (and also in ETS). Also,
parameters and conversion function definitions to be used in these transformation is quite
important, we will ask the Proejct Office to provide current idea on these parameters and
conversion functions even in preliminary.

  In M-3, calibration data is mentioned. Considering effects from environment or scatterd
light even we have a narrow band filter at camera of MCS, and requirement of MCS operation
during daytime even if we close dome shutter and dome lights turned off, we need to estimate
backgound per each image or each Cobra reconfiguration sequence. There could be some
implementations, such as 1) picking some outer or corner positions in taken MCS image and
calculate backgound level, or 2) take background only image for each Cobra reconfiguration.
Distribution of background over MCS image could be smooth and be written in upto 1 order
function, but in some special case like moon illuminates inside of dome or daytime operation,
we may have non-simple background (which we actually had during seeing test using FMOS PIR).
So, option 2 could be safer and we will set this as default. Before end of 'go home'
operation in one Cobra reconfiguration sequence, back illuminations are (or could be) turned
off, and we can take background-only image during 'go home' operation. If we slew telescope
to new distant target field (not like adjacent tile), we need to wait telescope to point new
target field, which can be easily implemented in IIC (or in Gen2).

  We pointed we need to think about 12 AG-FFFs nearby AG cameras (two per each) when we
simulate and analyse images with spots both of science fibers and FFFs. Spot identification
algorithm in FPS is required to identify rotation indication FFFs at outermost line,
without confused by these AG-FFFs.

  We have chatted about control computers for PFI, most of which are independent from
hardware or are connected to hardware via ethernet but not direct bus line (only one
exception is USB-Opt converter), so we may share computing resource as VMs except for
AGCC. Both of ASIAA (PFI) and IPMU (ICS infrastructure; incl. MHS) have not identified
such computing resource, but could share easily if we take an option of VM-operation.

  Positions of AG camera step window on detector pixel are measured using F/beam at
ASIAA with scanning over entire detector pixels. We pointed a possibility of spots at
such region during science operation, that telescope pointing without field acquisition
measurement could have some slight error. We are not sure how spot will behavior when
it is in such affected area, but it could be combination of two PSFs with different PSF
size. Once ASIAA gets real image using F/beam, we will look into these images to check
current spot measurement could work well or not. Also AGCC may need to flag measured
spots are in such area.


## 3-1b. misc

* after field element mounted at ASRD, dot position will be measured against FFFs with illuminating dot
  * illumination system will not be special, so we can do similar thing easily after remount (for Cobra maintenance)
  * remounting accuracy is unsure, need to consult with JPL
* it may be better to have independent table of verification items (X-#) with target run ID
  * even if we can get a list of verification items from ToC
* TM-N number in P-2 could be wrong
* In A-1, storbe mode is mentioned, which we will not use.


## 3-1c. instrument exchange operation (from previous day)

  We assume procedure of PFI instrument exchange will be as following.

### installation to PF
   * Fiber connection
   * Plug powe in  - network will connected, some modules powered up
   * Check electrical items  - can operate from remote
   * Glycol line connection - before power connected we don't have safety on coolant leak
   * Run MPS diagnostics function
   * Run FPS diagnostics
   * Check AG camera function, and set t_z - this requires glycol cooling

### remove from PF
   * Stop AG camera cooling - need to be done before glycol disconnection
   * Plug glycol off
   * Disconnect power line
   * Disconnect fibers


## 3-2. brainstorming session

  How to detemine target home position (CW/CCW) is a key for operation of 'go home' sequence,
and we need (theta, phi)_Cobra information to detemine them. ETS and FPS has parameters
required on conversion from F3C to Cobra, but IIC does not. If we want to perform this in
IIC, we need to ask ETS to pass a set of sky, F3C, MCS and Cobra.
  Collision avoidance or detection for 'go home' and selection criteria for CW/CCW home are
important and difficult point for operation. Since we cannot give up to 'go home' for next
operation of move to target even when Cobras are collided and we assume only one stage for
this 'go home' operation, we need to check or solve collision cases well in sure. Basic
assumption of home direction between CW and CCW is just by closer home position to next
target position, but if we think about total operation time for both 'go home' and 1st stage
to target, we may have another option such as closer home position to average of current
position and next target position.
  If we delay 1st stage of Cobra against 2nd stage of Cobra for 'go home' operation, we may
be able to reduce possibility of collision, since with small 2nd stage angle collision will
not happen. It was pointed that with calculating distance between axis of 2nd stage for Cobras
we can determine these two Cobras will collide or not when we move only 2nd stage for these
two Cobras. This calculation is quite easy and will not cost much, since in any case we will
calculate distances between fiber tips and axis of 2nd stage for detection of collision.
Also this distance could be useful to judge whether collision is slight one or eternal
deadlock one. We will make some figures and descriptions in detail on this idea.

  For motor map calculation, it was pointed that we would be better not to use information
from 1st stage movement, since most of collision possibility should be during 1st stage, and
command length for 1st stage will be large which means measured value will be average of
wide range of rotating angle. If average command pulse count for 2nd stage is large as a
few hundred pulses (~a few tens degree) as in simulation, limiting data to be used for
regeneration of motor maps from 2nd stage to the end could be more efficient, and also we
do not need data cleansing for collision cases. Of course, we need to cleanse data from
collided Cobras at 1st stage, but these are easy to be flagged even in real time operation,
which we definetry do during Cobra reconfiguration stages.
  We need to make a list of these points related on collision detecion, and are better to
present at upcoming Princeton meeting.

  We will want to have one repository for PFI AIT, such as ics_pfiaitActor, to put sequences
used during AIT and commissioning at ASIAA or Subaru, such as sequence to generate data for
regeneration of motor map (repeat of move Cobra with xxx pulse and measure by MCS).

