
- [Agenda](#meeting-agenda)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-agenda)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-agenda)
- [Minutes](#meeting-minutes)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-minutes)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-minutes)

## DateTime

1. ICS/PFI [Zoom 714459940](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/714459940): Not scheduled this time. Next is [20170216 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170216T0000)
2. ICS/SpS [Zoom 623268925](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/623268925): [20170201 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170201T1500)

## Last minutes

ICS #618 / [github/ics_doc](/memo-minutes/telecon-20170118.md)

## Nexts

1. ICS/PFI: [20170216 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170216T0000)
2. ICS/SpS: [20170215 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170215T1500)

## Meeting Agenda

### Overall

- Commit what you have in local, especially used at production but not pushed yet
- Preparation for ICS review meeting (ICS #614)
- Preparation and Planning for hardware delivery (MCS@2017-mid, SM1@2018Q1)
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INFRA-106: Make mail lists public (waiting inputs from teams other than ICS)
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-15: detector data rate and size to be archived (check values)
- Documentation framework
  - Corresponding ticket(s) not filed yet by Atsushi (ref. minutes 2017/01/04)

### ICS/SpS Agenda

- Status Updates
  - On-going modification on exposure time, pump, motor at LAM
    - motor: INSTRM-75, INSTRM-79, INSTRM-82
    - ion pump: INSTRM-74, INSTRM-80, INSTRM-81
    - camera: INSTRM-83, INSTRM-84
    - power: INSTRM-67
  - Release notes and documentations on ICS release tags for LAM r1 readout (also INSTRM-26)
    - Coordination on (better) FITS header for data in cold?
    - No reference ticket filed for tags already pushed?
  - CCD actor functional organization, missing repos for B,RCU
  - Planning for 2017/March at LAM?
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - Squash old JIRA tickets on INSTRM (from github, originally from old JIRA ICS)
    - INSTRM 46 to 59, 5
  - INSTRM-29 archive for FITS files from instrument development and testing activity
  - INSTRM-77, and we need to have new eups/actor installation procedure?
  - INFRA-70: conda channel for PFS development
  - INSTRM-31: Replace unnecessarily complicated Yocto bulid for BEEs
  - INSTRM-18: SCR cutouts
    - need to be updated by final design
  - INSTRM-28: Provide an id object to track site, camera, spectrograph, etc.
  - INSTRM-10: Provide eups documentation
  - INSTRM-43: ics_dnsmasq reorganization - final testing for organizing configuration (at IPMU)
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-23: ICS FITS file generation reference document
- Discussion items incl. stacked items
  - integration time control for real application
  - ics_dnsmasq branch configuration migration, dnsmasq configuration for non-dhcp hosts
  - sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components


### ICS/PFI Agenda

(Not scheduled this time)


## Meeting Minutes

### ICS/SpS Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Arnaud (LAM), Craig (Princeton), Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/02/01 1505 - 1615 UTC

#### Minutes

- Status updates at LAM
  - Documentation
    - Documentation almost ready, will be pushed shortly. 
    - Try to fill all functions, but still need to write some more
    - AIT function/validation matrix is not in this scope
  - Analysis of spectra using DRP
    - To check wavelength range/resolution on detector
    - Using spots data (arc) for identify and wavelength calibration
- Status updates at JHU
  - System cleanups at JHU is ongoing
    - This is preparation for commissioning of piepan
  - RS485 control issue for ion pump control
    - Timing is additionally coded (0.1s wait) in xCU actor
    - PCM is transparent for RS485 communication, so active sequence is by xCU actor
  - Struggling with a multicast enabled bootloader for the PCM
    - If really need to have some mechanism, we shall verify it could work on the production environment.
- Status updates at IPMU
  - Working on dnsmasq configuration for production (Subaru)
  - PRs for web sites are filed

- Actor documentation
  - Craig is planning to use ReadTheDocs for ics_xcuActor repository
    - Build documentation based on 'docs' directory in the repository
  - Integration from ReadTheDocs is enabled in Subaru-PFS organization wide
    - [Triggered update](http://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webhooks.html) requires configuration per repository at GitHub
    - Correspondent team for each repo shall have admin priv, but some not. Contact organization admin if not set.
  - Procedure and tools for full documentation including Doxygen and inter-repository link need to be setlled, but work not started yet.
    - Atsushi will try to file tickets (and start working) on this.
    - Such full documentation procedure could not work at ReadTheDocs, and may need some setup at pfspipe server.
- dnsmasq configuration
  - JHU branch is already created, LAM branch can be happen at any time when LAM is convenient
    - JHU and LAM branches could be identical, with some site specific configuration which do not conflict.
  - Need to have solid plan for 'master', several policy could be possible:
    - Add MAC address when item is deliverd to Subaru (this is the current idea to go)
    - Add MAC address when item is procured and configured
      - piepan will be replaced by whole assembly, whose config is one file
    - Need consideration also for others than SpS, like PFI or MCS
  - Considering replacement at AIT station, like xCU pipean, git operation is not simple and requires un-usual operation than merge etc.
    - Therefore, branches will be managed independent in git world...
  - Atsushi will try to develop draft proposal for 'master' management and dnsmasq service configuration
    - This shall include config files' organization
- Actor installation and eups (e.g. INSTRM-77)
  - Installation of actor from 'master' shall be denied by script
    - ics_config was supposed to use 'master' without tag for production, but not yet defined well
      - We have not discussed how we handle instrument configuration yet, need to have some idea.
    - We can continue current way of development even if installation script is modified as this.
  - Scheme of using both bootstrap and module installation will not be changed

##### JIRA tickets

- INSTRM-15: merge not yet finished. Atsushi shall work on.
- INSTRM-29: JHU FITS data storage is independent from H4RG code, so internet access to FITS data may be possible
  - Try to contact Jim (and Steve?) to find a way. Craig and Atsushi will try.
- INSTRM-12: Craig provided URL for LSST's eups document
  - Most ICS team members may not need operation of eups in deep, but just using scripts provided

### ICS/PFI Minutes

(Not held this time)

