
- [Agenda](#meeting-agenda)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-agenda)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-agenda)
- [Minutes](#meeting-minutes)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-minutes)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-minutes)

## DateTime

1. ICS/PFI [Zoom 714459940](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/714459940): [20170302 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170302T0000)
2. ICS/SpS [Zoom 623268925](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/623268925): [20170301 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170301T1500)

## Last minutes

- no email was circulated to the list
- [SpS: github/ics_doc 20170201](/memo-minutes/telecon-20170201.md)
- [PFI: github/ics_doc 20170215](/memo-minutes/telecon-20170215.md)

## Nexts

1. ICS/PFI: [20170316 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170316T0000)
2. ICS/SpS: [20170315 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170315T1500)

## Meeting Agenda

### Overall

- Commit what you have in local, especially used at production but not pushed yet
- Preparation for ICS review meeting ([ICS #623](https://pfspipe.ipmu.jp/pipermail/ics/2017/000623.html))
  - ICS infra (storage, network, etc.) review at [INSTRM-101](https://pfspipe.ipmu.jp/jira/browse/INSTRM-101)
- Preparation and Planning for hardware delivery (MCS@2017-mid, SM1@2018Q1)
- Documentation framework
  - Corresponding ticket(s) not filed yet by Atsushi (ref. minutes 2017/01/04)
  - instrument wide documentation framework with ReST and doxygen need to be defined and verified

### ICS/SpS Agenda

- Status Updates
  - System cleanups at JHU and commissioning of piepans
  - Status on documentation
    - ENU-wide documents and AIT functionality checklists
  - On-going modification on exposure time, pump, motor at LAM
    - motor: INSTRM-75, INSTRM-79, INSTRM-82
    - ion pump: INSTRM-74, INSTRM-80, INSTRM-81
    - camera: INSTRM-83, INSTRM-84, INSTRM-92, INSTRM-93, INSTRM-94
    - power: INSTRM-67
  - ICS testbed at IPMU
    - tickets on ics_archiver (INSTRM-66, INSTRM-78)
    - ics_archiver does not read actorkeys?
  - Release notes and documentations on ICS release tags for LAM r1 readout (also INSTRM-26)
    - Coordination on (better) FITS header for data in cold?
    - No reference ticket filed for tags already pushed?
  - Planning for 2017/March at LAM?
  - ics_dnsmasq:master is ready to be squashed
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - Squash old JIRA tickets on INSTRM (from github, originally from old JIRA ICS)
    - INSTRM 46 to 59, 5
  - INSTRM-29 archive for FITS files from instrument development and testing activity
    - any progress on ckecking JHU configuration
  - INSTRM-31: Replace unnecessarily complicated Yocto bulid for BEEs
  - INSTRM-28: Provide an id object to track site, camera, spectrograph, etc.
  - INSTRM-43: ics_dnsmasq reorganization - final testing for organizing configuration (at IPMU)
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-23: ICS FITS file generation reference document
    - INFRA-113: remove unused repos (to be checked)
    - INFRA-70: conda channel for PFS development
- Discussion items incl. stacked items
  - integration time control for real application
  - sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components
  - multicast enabled bootloader handling at real (if required really)


### ICS/PFI Agenda

- Status updates
  - Documentation
  - Updates on interface between FPS and m2t?
    - Some discussion seems held at Caltech last week
  - MCS image handling on spot measurement and arc detection, and FITS file handling
  - Discussion and preparation for m2t and MPS connection test
    - connection from ASIAA to testing hardware at Caltech
  - Data file exchange for generation verification
  - AIT tools preparation
    - MCS AIT camera
    - AIT tools for MPS and Cobra
  - Control computer plan for FPS, AG at summit
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INFRA-93: Repository for coordinate transformation
  - INFRA-105: JIRA components for PFI part
  - INSTRM-63: FPS data handling *formal* trade study
- Discussion items incl. long term items


## Meeting Minutes

### ICS/SpS Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Arnaud, Fabrice (LAM), Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/03/15 1505 - 1545 UTC

#### Minutes

- IPMU status updates
  - Preparation for upcoming ICS infrastructure review, draft presentation is at github
  - ICS MHS related service testbench has constructed at IPMU, but found severral issues
    - Arnaud pointed some working tricks for ics_archiver
      - eups setup actorkey (even not depended) before starting archive
      - need to export ARCHIVER_DIR with ICS_ARCHIVER_DIR value
- LAM status updates
  - LAM branch for ics_dnsmasq had checked-in
  - Documentation preparation on-going
  - Development is undergo for shutter control, will finish within this week
  - Alignment work and its data analysis are on going
  - AIT user interfaces' development
    - Sequencing window with list type dispatcher have added into GUI tool
    - Automatic sequencing with analysis is a future plan to implement
      - To run test sequences at night or weekend
      - Can push status, warning, or error to MHS as status line, and Jabber integration for remote monitoring could be possible
        - LAM will tell the project if they found any tric or tip on such implementation
- On-site network configuration for LAM part
  - ENU is designed to have its dedicated network for internal control behind ENU PC104
  - For operation safety point of view (not to interrupt interlocks from outside ENU), having this network is preferred
  - Atsushi will add this point to discussion items in the upcoming ICS infra review

##### JIRA tickets

- INSTRM-29 (AIT archive): Fabrice will discuss LAM local admin on data handling and transfer

### ICS/PFI Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Chih-Yi, Chi-Hung (ASIAA), Naoyuki, Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/03/16 0010 - 0025 UTC

#### Minutes

- ASIAA status updates
  - Documentation checked-in to FCC, working for others
    - FCC camera server at Windows side has also been checkedin. Atsushi will try to find time this set is compilable (as cross check)
    - FCC interface definition with parameter definitions is included in the document. Atsushi will check it is fine or not.
  - Documentation work undergo for FPS and MPS, on detailed design and interfaces
  - AIT tools implmenetation
    - For fiber aiming and integration work at ASRD
      - Already under testing phase for this tool
      - minor modification is required, but almost done
  - Calling MPS interface from FPS is around 70-80 percent implemented in FPS
    - m2t has finished already
    - mockup simulation is planned to be implemented, for verification
    - No update on m2t online testing with connecting ASIAA and Caltech
- IPMU status updates
  - Preparation for upcoming ICS infrastructure review, draft presentation is at github

##### JIRA tickets

- INFRA-105: ASIAA will have meeting internally

