
- [Agenda](#meeting-agenda)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-agenda)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-agenda)
- [Minutes](#meeting-minutes)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-minutes)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-minutes)

## DateTime

1. ICS/PFI [Zoom 714459940](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/714459940): [20170316 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170316T0000)
2. ICS/SpS [Zoom 623268925](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/623268925): [20170315 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170315T1500)

## Last minutes

- no email was circulated to the list
- [github/ics_doc 20170301](/memo-minutes/telecon-2017301.md)

## Nexts

_PROPOSAL_
1. ICS/PFI: [20170330 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170330T0000)
2. ICS/SpS: [20170329 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170329T1500)

## Meeting Agenda

### Overall

- Commit what you have in local, especially used at production but not pushed yet
- Preparation for ICS review meeting ([ICS #623](https://pfspipe.ipmu.jp/pipermail/ics/2017/000623.html))
  - ICS infra (storage, network, etc.) review succeeded. [presentation](https://github.com/Subaru-PFS/ics_doc/blob/master/SSN-00029.pptx)
- Preparation and Planning for hardware delivery (MCS@2017-mid, SM1@2018Q1)
- Documentation framework
  - Corresponding ticket(s) not filed yet by Atsushi (ref. minutes 2017/01/04)
  - instrument wide documentation framework with ReST and doxygen need to be defined and verified

### ICS/SpS Agenda

- Status Updates
  - System cleanups at JHU and commissioning of piepans
  - Status on documentation
    - ENU-wide documents and AIT functionality checklists
  - On-going modification on exposure time, pump, motor at LAM
    - motor: INSTRM-75, INSTRM-79, INSTRM-82
    - ion pump: INSTRM-74, INSTRM-80, INSTRM-81
    - camera: INSTRM-83, INSTRM-84, INSTRM-92, INSTRM-93, INSTRM-94
    - power: INSTRM-67
  - ICS testbed at IPMU
    - tickets on ics_archiver (INSTRM-66, INSTRM-78)
    - verify how to work with actorkey, and documentation
  - Release notes and documentations on ICS release tags for LAM r1 readout (also INSTRM-26)
    - Coordination on (better) FITS header for data in cold?
    - No reference ticket filed for tags already pushed?
  - Planning for 2017/April at LAM?
  - ics_dnsmasq management document progress
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - Squash old JIRA tickets on INSTRM (from github, originally from old JIRA ICS)
    - INSTRM 46 to 59, 5
  - INSTRM-29 archive for FITS files from instrument development and testing activity
    - any progress on ckecking JHU configuration
  - INSTRM-31: Replace unnecessarily complicated Yocto bulid for BEEs
  - INSTRM-28: Provide an id object to track site, camera, spectrograph, etc.
  - INSTRM-43: ics_dnsmasq reorganization - final testing for organizing configuration (at IPMU)
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-23: ICS FITS file generation reference document
    - INFRA-113: remove unused repos (to be checked)
    - INFRA-70: conda channel for PFS development
- Discussion items incl. stacked items
  - integration time control for real application
  - sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components
  - multicast enabled bootloader handling at real (if required really)


### ICS/PFI Agenda

- Status updates
  - Documentation
    - PFI other than FPS/MPS
    - FPS, m2t
  - Updates on interface between FPS and m2t?
    - Some discussion seems held at Caltech last week
    - Discussion and preparation for m2t and MPS connection test
      - connection from ASIAA to testing hardware at Caltech
    - Data file exchange for generation verification
  - MCS image handling on spot measurement and arc detection, and FITS file handling
  - AIT tools preparation
    - MCS AIT camera
    - AIT tools for MPS and Cobra
  - Control computer plan for FPS, AG at summit
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INFRA-93: Repository for coordinate transformation
  - INFRA-105: JIRA components for PFI part
  - INSTRM-63: FPS data handling *formal* trade study
- Discussion items incl. long term items


## Meeting Minutes

### ICS/SpS Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Arnaud, Fabrice (LAM), Craig, Robert (Princeton), Naoyuki, Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/03/15 1500 - 1555 UTC

#### Minutes

- Agenda/minutes management
  - Have some chat to have ticket(s) for agenda and minutes, but will continue current way (just to push on master).
  - Could have time limit on ticket management, but mostly it is possible getting no r+ nor comment to close ticket(s).
- Status updates from IPMU
  - (Mostly) Passed ICS infrastructure hardware design review by Subaru
  - Preparing for pre-ship review for upcoming shipping of SCR control hardware
- LAM
  - AIT interface implementation almost finished
    - Codes are in AIT actor
    - AIT GUI interface will be shot by screen image or video for sharing its design and display
  - Automatical sequence or command dispatcher part is under imprementation
    - Including to deal with full SM1 but not only RCU1
  - Focus measurement work almost finished
- PU/JHU updates
  - PCM, motor interfaces have updated
  - Documentation work undergo
  - Roughing pump implementation is by separated actor than PCM etc.
    - Need hardware preparation in 5th rack, check existing tickets and file if no one (AI Atsushi)
    - We are using different ones at JHU and LAM, and production (JHU) are directly delivered to Subaru. Need to fix and validate implementations independent from AIT at LAM
  - Replacement piepan has sent to LAM with updated BEE image
- Release note and tag management way
  - Need to be discussed with firm implementation idea
  - Have discussion in dedicated session or f2f
- Sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - PCM implementation need to be documented. Craig will contact H.Steve.
- Instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components
  - For upstream point of view (connection between PFS storage and Subaru), connection between PFS storage and NFS server could be changed to FC but no effect to control components

##### JIRA tickets

- Old tickets (INSTRM 46-59,5) are possible to be closed with invalid or worksforme, Craig will check them to close
- INSTRM 29 (data archiver for development data)
  - No update at LAM
  - Craig will contact with Jim
- INSTRM 31 has closed
  - Need documentation for Yockt build of BEE at production and maintenance, file ticket(s) and track it.
- INSTRM 28 (id helper) is planned to move into actorcore but not yet done

### ICS/PFI Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Chi-Hung (ASIAA), Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/03/16 0010 - 0022 UTC

#### Minutes

- Low level implementations to call m2t API on FPS has implemented
  - Starting integration of camera part into FPS sequence
- IPMU (mostly) passed ICS infrastructure hardware design review by Subaru
- Coordinate transformation
  - Data documentation is under preparation. Can be handled to ASIAA in short time
  - Better to share these data even for documentation as repository.
  - Implementing standard code for coordinate transformation will be discussed in IPMU to show some draft idea.

