
- [Agenda](#meeting-agenda)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-agenda)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-agenda)
- [Minutes](#meeting-minutes)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-minutes)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-minutes)

## DateTime

1. ICS/PFI [Zoom 714459940](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/714459940): [20170330 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170330T0000)
2. ICS/SpS [Zoom 623268925](https://ipmu.zoom.us/j/623268925): [20170329 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170330T1500)

## Last minutes

- no email was circulated to the list
- [github/ics_doc 20170315](/memo-minutes/telecon-20170315.md)

## Nexts

1. ICS/PFI: [20170413 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170413T0000)
2. ICS/SpS: [20170412 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170412T1500)

## Meeting Agenda

### Overall

- Commit what you have in local, especially used at production but not pushed yet
- Preparation for ICS review meeting ([ICS #623](https://pfspipe.ipmu.jp/pipermail/ics/2017/000623.html))
- Preparation and Planning for hardware delivery (SCR+CB2F computers@201705, MCS@2017-mid, SM1@2018Q1)
- Documentation framework
  - Corresponding ticket(s) not filed yet by Atsushi (ref. minutes 2017/01/04)
  - instrument wide documentation framework with ReST and doxygen need to be defined and verified

### ICS/SpS Agenda

- Status Updates
  - Preparation for upcoming cooling down test at LAM
    - Hardware at LAM, xCU actor rogress, and?
    - AIT GUI preparation progress/updates
    - Data analysis integration/preparation at LAM
  - Status on documentation
    - ENU-wide documents and AIT functionality checklists
  - On-going modification on exposure time, pump, motor at LAM
    - motor: INSTRM-75, INSTRM-79, INSTRM-82
    - ion pump: INSTRM-74, INSTRM-80, INSTRM-81
    - camera: INSTRM-83, INSTRM-84, INSTRM-92, INSTRM-93, INSTRM-94, INSTRM-96, INSTRM-99, INSTRM-100
    - power: INSTRM-67
  - ICS testbed at IPMU
    - tickets on ics_archiver (INSTRM-66, INSTRM-78)
    - verify how to work with actorkey, and documentation
  - Release notes and documentations on ICS release tags for LAM r1 readout (also INSTRM-26)
    - Coordination on (better) FITS header for data in cold?
    - No reference ticket filed for tags already pushed?
  - Planning for 2017/April at LAM?
  - ics_dnsmasq management document progress
  - PCM power management implementation document
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - old JIRA tickets on INSTRM from github (origin from old JIRA ICS)
    - Let's just squash all tickets: INSTRM 46 to 59, 5
  - INSTRM-29 archive for FITS files from instrument development and testing activity
    - progress on LAM infrastructure, possibility of WebDAV but not ssh/sftp
    - any progress on ckecking JHU configuration
  - INSTRM-43: ics_dnsmasq reorganization - final testing for organizing configuration (at IPMU)
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-23: ICS FITS file generation reference document
    - INFRA-70: conda channel for PFS development
- Discussion items incl. stacked items
  - integration time control for real application
  - sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components
  - multicast enabled bootloader handling at real (if required really)


### ICS/PFI Agenda

- Status updates
  - Documentation
    - PFI other than FPS/MPS
    - FPS, m2t
  - Updates on interface between FPS and m2t?
    - Discussion and preparation for m2t and MPS connection test
      - connection from ASIAA to testing hardware at Caltech
    - Data file exchange for generation verification
    - Preparation for visits to both sides
  - MCS image handling on spot measurement and arc detection, and FITS file handling
  - AIT tools preparation
    - MCS AIT camera
    - AIT tools for MPS and Cobra
  - Control computer plan for FPS, AG at summit
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INFRA-93: Repository for coordinate transformation
  - INFRA-105: JIRA components for PFI part
  - INSTRM-63: FPS data handling *formal* trade study
  - New repository requests: INFRA-120, INFRA-122
- Discussion items incl. long term items


## Meeting Minutes

### ICS/SpS Minutes

#### Attendee

(Broken session: 1505-1600 UTC)

#### Minutes

- dnsmasq new configuration (TXT entry for FITS id)
- GUI toold modification for multiple instances are planned (SpS AIT tools)
  - Adding features for sequencing
- xCU modification is pushed to github with tag
  - Start of cooling test is pending due to waiting for mechanical part

### ICS/PFI Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Chih-Yi, Chi-Hung, Jeniffer (ASIAA), Naoyuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/03/30 0005 - 0035 UTC

#### Minutes

- Status updates of ASIAA
  - Documentation for FVC actor in progess, with small code modification
    - FVC is now just for control of viewing camera, but without illuminator
  - FPS already can call all functions of m2t and documentation on going
    - Fomula of coordinate transformation from Yuki will be included
      - Planning to prepare repository to host documents, parameters, and code
  - MCS lab image acquired for arc identification test
    - Currently just plan/test to identify with one shot

