
- [Agenda](#meeting-agenda)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-agenda)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-agenda)
- [Minutes](#meeting-minutes)
  - [ICS/SpS](#icssps-minutes)
  - [ICS/PFI](#icspfi-minutes)

## DateTime

1. ICS/PFI: [20170105 0000-0100 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170105T0000)
2. ICS/SpS: [20170104 1500-1600 UTC](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170104T1500)

## Last minutes

ICS #609 / [github/ics_doc](/memo-minutes/telecon-20161207.md)

## Meeting Agenda

### Overall

- Preparation for ICS review meeting (ICS #614)
- Preparation and Planning for hardware delivery (MCS@2017-mid, SM1@2018Q1)
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INSTRM-16: Create new document on hardware delivery to Subaru
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-15: detector data rate and size to be archived (check values)
- Meeting agenda/minutes on github (flow TBD)

### ICS/SpS Agenda

- Status Updates
  - CCD actor functional organization, missing repos for B,RCU
  - INSTRM-29 archive for FITS files from instrument development and testing activity
  - Planning for 2017/Feb at LAM?
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - Squash old JIRA tickets on INSTRM (from github, originally from old JIRA ICS)
    - INSTRM 46 to 59, 5
  - INSTRM-43: ics_dnsmasq reorganization
  - INFRA-70: conda channel for PFS development
  - INSTRM-31: Replace unnecessarily complicated Yocto bulid for BEEs
  - INSTRM-18: SCR cutouts
    - need to be updated by final design
  - INSTRM-28: Provide an id object to track site, camera, spectrograph, etc.
  - INSTRM-26: Make ICS release tags for LAM r1 readout
  - INSTRM-10: Provide eups documentation
  - Pending reviews
    - INSTRM-23: ICS FITS file generation reference document
- Discussion items incl. stacked items
  - integration time control for real application
  - ics_dnsmasq branch configuration migration, dnsmasq configuration for non-dhcp hosts
  - sequence development for SpS power failure mode
  - instrument wide shared storage plan for SpS components


### ICS/PFI Agenda

- Status updates
  - Discussion and preparation for m2t and MPS connection test
    - connection from ASIAA to testing hardware at Caltech
  - Data file exchange for generation verification
  - AIT tools preparation
    - MCS AIT camera
    - AIT tools for MPS and Cobra
- Going through JIRA tickets
  - INFRA-93: Repository for coordinate transformation
- Discussion items incl. long term items
  - Software readiness review for MPS delivery to ASIAA (MPS, m2t)

## Meeting Minutes

### ICS/SpS Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Arnaud, Fabrice (LAM), Craig, Robert (Princeton), Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/01/04 1500 - 1600 UTC

#### Minutes

##### Preparation for next cooldown

- Estimated starting from this Fri (Jan/6) after inspection of facility
- Items to be fixed
  - To take more data in cold with better FITS header coordination
  - Add FITS header keywords also into keys directory (ics_actorkey)
  - LAM is wokring on exposure time sequence implementation
- Try to tag on xCU and ENU repos before real stage
  - We have INSTRM-26 for tagging. Having one ticket for one tag is preferred.
  - INSTRM-26 could be used (only) for (the) upcoming cooling real stage

##### Documentation

We need to think seriously about project wide documentation, both writting 
and strategy. 
Some of ICS infrastructures like eups or MHS are documented in external 
repository like in DRP. Inter-package documentation within PFS should be 
discussed at somewhere, but we need to define our strategy for documentation 
on ICS actors and modules. 

Strategy of ICS documentation was initially proposed as: 
- write things in ReST format (or some text format, at least)
- have 'docs' directory in each actor repositry, and put ReST documents in
- use Doxygen (or something similar?) for documentation of code itself
- store inter-module or module independent documents in ics_doc repository
but need to be defined formally and to be agreed within the entire team. 

Atsushi shall file ticket(s) for these to go forward. 

##### JIRA tickets

- Let's try to make some time to going through old JIRA tickets, INSTRM 46 to 59 and 5
- INFRA-70 (conda channel): no progress at Craig side yet, will try soon
- INSTRM-15 (data rate): take time to review
- INSTRM-31 (Yocto for BEEs): not immediately required, and postphoned
- INSTRM 18, 43: not yet started working
- INSTRM-28 (id object for FITS filename): some codes already committed, Craig will comment on ticket
- INSTRM-10 (eups documentation): Craig will add some pointers from DRP

### ICS/PFI Minutes

#### Attendee

- Attendee: Chih-Yi, Chi-Hung (ASIAA), Yuki, Atsushi (IPMU)
- DateTime: 2017/01/05 0005 - 0020 UTC

#### Minutes

- Direct connection between m2t test environment at ASIAA and MPS at Caltech
  - ASIAA is trying to contact Caltech (Hrand) but not got reply for new years
  - Could ask to Mark or someone at Caltech/JPL in management or SE telecon
- AIT tools
  - XY table movement implemented
- FCC
  - Failed on Linux, so control on Windows is the current plan
  - Will have some proxy module between actor and USB on Windows over network
  - tron on Windows could be an option?

